---
layout: post
section-type: post
title: Component-Based Model-Driven Software Development (2006-2010)
category: project
tags: [ ]
---
_PhD thesis, TU Dresden_

Model-driven software development (MDSD) and component-based software development are both paradigms for reducing complexity and for increasing abstraction and reuse in software development. In this thesis, we aim at combining the advantages of each by introducing methods from component-based development into MDSD. In MDSD, all artefacts that describe a software system are regarded as models of the system and are treated as the central development artefacts. To obtain a system implementation from such models, they are transformed and integrated until implementation code can be generated from them. Models in MDSD can have very different forms: they can be documents, diagrams, or textual specifications defined in different modelling languages. Integrating these models of different formats and abstraction in a consistent way is a central challenge in MDSD.

We propose to tackle this challenge by explicitly separating the tasks of defining model components and composing model components, which is also known as distinguishing programming-in-the-small and programming-in-the-large. That is, we promote a separation of models into models for modelling-in-the-small (models that are components) and models for modelling-in-the-large (models that describe compositions of model components). To perform such component-based modelling, we introduce two architectural styles for developing systems with component-based MDSD (CB-MDSD).

<a href="http://nbn-resolving.de/urn:nbn:de:bsz:14-qucosa-63986">Publication on www.qucosa.de</a>

<embed src="http://www.qucosa.de/fileadmin/data/qucosa/documents/6398/Dissertation_Jendrik_Johannes.pdf" width="800" height="1080" type='application/pdf'/>
